The Politics of “Deep-Rooted Evil”
When those in power begin demonizing the opposition, it is a sign that 
things may be going wrong for democracy. The most prominent example offered by the Moon administration is its campaign of “eradicating 
deep-rooted evils”4
 from Korean society and politics. Moon’s transition 
team proudly proclaimed this as his top agenda item. In practice, this 
has meant two things. The first has been a string of agency investigations and personnel purges affecting the Foreign Ministry and National 
102 Journal of Democracy
Intelligence Service as well as other departments. The second has been a 
number of politically selective cases lodged against former high-ranking 
officials by the Supreme Prosecutors’ Office in Seoul under Prosecutor General Yoon Seok Youl.5
 Among 
those whom Yoon has charged have 
been not only a former Supreme Court 
chief justice, but also ex-president Lee 
Myung Bak (2008–13).
The government behavior that Koreans are witnessing is that of a new 
elite proud of having come to power 
as the result of a popular movement 
and also—one must add—more than a 
little drunk on its own sense of moral 
superiority. The new governing class 
that came in with President Moon has 
triumphantly proclaimed a mission 
of “eradicating deep-rooted evil perpetrated by those in authority” and 
changing the mainstream of Korean society.6
 There is nothing novel in 
Korean politics about a new administration seeking to set itself apart 
from its predecessor, or going after lingering corruption. Justifying such 
actions with dualistic logic—aggressively attacking the other side as a 
“great evil” and “reactionary,” for instance—has been less typical since 
democratization in 1987, however.7
 In Korea as elsewhere, it is rhetoric 
that opens the door to attacks on democratic norms. 
The bureaucratic purges have seen officials who were in charge of 
carrying out policy—not policy makers—grilled as if they had more 
control than they did, and punished excessively. Special investigations 
have scrutinized the Foreign Ministry regarding the 2015 agreement 
with Japan on Second World War–era “comfort women”; the Unification Ministry regarding the 2016 decision to close the Kaesong Industrial 
Region after a North Korean rocket launch; and the Education Ministry 
regarding the 2015 decision to reinstate government-published middleand high-school history texts. The investigations led to the punishment 
of numerous officials (both executives and working-level staffers) who 
were involved in policy implementation. In the schoolbook matter, the 
Education Ministry special investigation committee asked prosecutors 
to investigate seventeen individuals, and ordered disciplinary punishments for six working-level officials.8
Policy review is a common practice for any new administration, but 
ideologically driven investigative efforts like the Moon government’s 
are rare in liberal democracies. By the end of 2017, a total of 39 special 
task forces and committees—staffed largely by progovernment experts 
often drawn from progressive civic and labor organizations—had been 
formed to “eradicate deep-rooted evils” left over from previous conserDemands by the political 
opposition to impeach 
the president may become 
the new normal. Descent 
into a cycle of provocation and revenge reminiscent of Greek tragedy 
is a real possibility for 
Korean politics.
Gi-Wook Shin 103
vative governments. Many have questioned the wisdom and legality of 
these ad hoc groups, and controversy has been heated both inside and 
outside the ministries and agencies targeted for investigation. The investigations have crushed the morale of civil servants, making it seem 
as if political loyalty, not professionalism, must now be the measure of 
a career in the state bureaucracy.
This all-out campaign has sharpened polarization, accompanied by 
tense mobilizations on both the right and the left. On the right, there is 
the so-called Taegukgi Brigade, named after the Korean national flag 
that adherents wave during protests to demonstrate their patriotism. On 
the left, there are the zealous presidential supporters known as “Moonppa” (a neologism that stands for “Moon’s big brothers”). Protests 
against Moon are held just a few blocks from the Blue House while 
about a dozen kilometers and a world away, on the far (southern) side 
of the Han River, pro-Moon rallies go on near the Supreme Prosecutors’ Office. The geographical divide reflects the split in a society where 
anger and resentment are crowding out tolerance and a willingness to 
compromise. 
Korean society is fragmenting amid a pervasive atmosphere of mistrust and conflict between individuals, groups, and generations. There 
is now a greater likelihood that conservatives, while currently in disarray, will launch their own campaign to “eradicate deep-rooted evils” 
if and when they regain power. Demands by the political opposition 
to impeach the president may become the new normal. Descent into a 
cycle of provocation and revenge reminiscent of Greek tragedy is a real 
possibility for Korean politics.