Interfering with the Courts
Separation of powers is a fundamental of liberal democracy, and the 
courts are the last line of defense for the rule of law. From the outset, the 
Moon government has abused its administrative powers in order to undermine this basic principle and politicize the courts. A judge who had 
been the head of a left-wing lawyers’ group was named secretary of legal affairs in the Office of the President. Another, recently retired judge 
with a similar background later succeeded to this post. These two officials have reportedly run the effort to “eradicate deep-rooted evils” in 
the judiciary, culminating in the arrests of several senior judges. These 
included former chief justice Yang Sung Tae, who in January 2019 was 
detained on a raft of charges related to the scandals surrounding former 
president Park.
The naming of officers of the court such as prosecutors to high-level 
jobs at the Blue House has been a controversial practice in successive 
governments. It led to a March 2017 amendment of the Korean Prosecutors’ Act by the Moon administration that stipulated at least a year of 
104 Journal of Democracy
retirement before an ex-prosecutor can assume a Blue House post. The 
naming of former judges went ahead, however—pushed by the Moon 
administration on the grounds that there were no laws forbidding it. Yet 
this practice was even more troubling, since judges outrank prosecutors 
and are supposed to be even more politically independent. While the 
legal loophole was there (at least until a February 2020 amendment to 
the Court Organization Act closed it), the Moon government’s deliberate exploitation of it to blur the lines between the judicial and executive branches was an ominous attack on the constitutional principle of a 
separation of powers.
Such acts are not only problematic but also highly dangerous, as 
President Moon has the time and power to reshape the courts during his 
tenure. Korea, like France and Germany, has both a Supreme Court and 
a Constitutional Court. Justices on these bodies mainly serve renewable 
six-year terms, a circumstance that tends to give presidents (the presidential term is five years, nonrenewable) significant chances to shape 
the judiciary through appointments. At this time, only a little more than 
three years into his term, President Moon has so far named ten justices 
(including the chief justice) of the fourteen-member Supreme Court, and 
during the balance of his term he will have the opportunity to appoint 
successors to three of the four remaining Park-appointed justices. Moon 
has also named eight of the nine justices on the Constitutional Court, six 
of whom are of progressive inclination. 
It is normal, of course, for a president to have judicial-appointment 
powers. Less normal but on display in Korea today are jurists who resign or retire and then immediately plunge into partisan politics. In the 
April 2020 election, three former judges, all Democrats, ran for and 
won National Assembly seats, in each case while echoing Moon administration rhetoric about “eradicating deep-rooted evils.” The danger of 
this should be apparent: If judges associated with particular decisions 
or issues start jumping into politics, it could turn legal rulings into the 
equivalent of campaign appeals and undermine faith in the fairness and 
impartiality of the courts.9
 With the ruling bloc now in charge of all 
three branches, the hazard of judges who put political considerations 
ahead of legal principles looms larger than ever. Liberal democracy cannot survive without checks and balances, and those cannot be applied 
without independent courts. 