Changing the Rules of the Game, Double Standards
Election laws are “rules of the game” that are essential to upholding 
democracy. If a powerful actor unilaterally changes these rules to its 
own advantage, it is hard for others to accept the results that follow. 
A 2012 amendment to the National Assembly Act was meant to prevent just such unilateral action. The amendment stipulates a 60 percent 
Gi-Wook Shin 105
threshold for passing any major legislation and takes away the speaker’s 
power, as presiding officer, to send any bill straight to a floor vote. In 
2019, however, the Democrats bypassed the main party on the right and 
worked with three smaller parties to enact a new electoral system that 
introduced a number of seats filled according to mixed-member proportional (MMP) representation. In response, the main opposition party 
filibustered and even used force. April 2019 saw sit-ins and angry confrontations at the multistory National Assembly Building overlooking 
the Han’s south bank on Yeoui Island, Seoul’s financial district.10 The 
situation deteriorated to the point where legislators from both the ruling 
and opposition parties wound up facing criminal charges. 
The National Assembly has 253 seats filled from single-member districts (SMDs), with the remaining 47 seats filled through proportional 
representation (PR) from party lists. Before 2019, all the PR seats were 
distributed based on parties’ respective vote percentages. Changes that 
were finally passed in December 2019, however, left only 17 of the PR 
seats to be shared out in the old manner. The other 30 seats are now 
distributed according to a quasi-MMP formula that had been expected 
to favor small parties, which is why the smaller opposition parties had 
backed the shift in the first place. 
The stated goal was valid: Give minority parties more of a voice in 
the national lawmaking body. The manner of passage may have been 
within the letter of the rules as well. Yet even so, changing the rules 
of the game against the will of the main opposition party violates the 
spirit of liberal, constitutional democracy. Powerless to stop the change, 
the main opposition party adapted to it by forming a novel “satellite” 
party that ran only for PR seats while the parent party ran only for SMD 
seats—all in an effort to maximize the combined number of seats. 
The Democrats at first attacked the idea of a satellite party as an underhanded trick. Later, however, they formed one of their own, claiming 
that “popular militias” were rising up to defend the progressive cause. The 
original intent of adding an MMP element to the system slid rapidly into 
irrelevancy as all actors outdid each other in finding ways to circumvent 
the rules. The April election results showed that these “tricks” worked 
well: The two major parties together captured 36 of the 47 PR seats, leaving smaller parties out in the cold. It was all done within the letter of the 
law, but through their actions and reactions both the ruling party and its 
opponents have left democratic norms and the liberal-democratic spirit 
bruised and damaged. The satellite party of the ruling bloc merged with 
its parent party soon after the elections. A public outcry against the new 
electoral system is already rising. 
Then there is the matter of double standards. The Moon administration likes to claim solidarity with the weak and disadvantaged as proof 
that it is uniquely well qualified to reform society. Yet the row over 
former justice minister Cho Kuk showed in no uncertain terms that the 
106 Journal of Democracy
president and his party will not hesitate to behave like any power elite 
when crossed. Cho, holder of a UC-Berkeley doctorate, was a Seoul National University law professor who had been one of President Moon’s 
first hires, serving at the Blue House as senior secretary for civil affairs. 
Widely known as an outspoken progressive intellectual, he had also been 
active in civil society and had often 
stressed the need to reform Korea’s 
legal system. 
In the second half of 2019, during 
Cho’s National Assembly confirmation hearings for the Justice Ministry 
post, there emerged a plethora of corruption allegations against him. The 
Supreme Prosecutors’ Office under 
Yoon Seok Youl investigated, later indicting Cho and members of his family on charges that included bribery 
and document fraud. The Blue House, the Democratic Party, and their 
supporters reacted with fury, denouncing the investigation and the legal 
process as a reactionary plot. A Democratic legislator who had dared to 
criticize Cho’s appointment was excoriated as “antireform” because he 
had been a prosecutor before entering politics. None of this was enough 
to save Cho, who resigned under public pressure after only 35 days as 
justice minister and is now awaiting trial along with his wife.
The imbroglio made the Moon administration’s double standards 
painfully apparent. A government that had shown no qualms about seeing prosecutorial power wielded against its political opponents could 
not stand seeing a friend such as Cho become the target of a criminal investigation. Suddenly, prosecutors needed checking. Choo Mi Ae, who 
from 2016 to 2018 chaired the Democratic Party and is now the justice 
minister, has imposed disclosure limits on indictments and moved to 
add a layer of decision making that will separate the bringing of charges 
from the investigation itself. In defending these changes, she has cited 
the importance of “the right to a fair trial.”11 That is at least creditable in 
principle, even if the administration showed no interest in such reforms 
until one of its own found himself in the hot seat. Less creditable have 
been Justice Minister Choo’s moves to tie Prosecutor General Yoon’s 
hands by reaching into his office to demote key prosecutors in charge of 
sensitive investigations. These maneuvers are within her legal authority, 
but troubling. Prosecutors are not merely executive agents—they are officers of the judicial system as well, and concerns about the separation 
of powers apply to them as such.
The double standard that the Moon administration applied during the 
Cho Kuk affair represents a failure to respect the spirit of the candleAdding to the foreboding 
has been the spectacle 
offered by the many 
former democratic 
activists, now ensconced 
in office, who are leading 
the charge against 
important democratic 
rules and norms.
Gi-Wook Shin 107
light protests. Regard for law above party would also impel stepping 
aside to let prosecutors thoroughly investigate matters such as the Blue 
House’s alleged interference in the June 2018 Ulsan mayoral election. 
Thirteen people, including senior secretaries to the president, have been 
indicted for extensive illegal efforts to make sure that a close friend of 
the president would triumph in his bid to become mayor of that important industrial city.12
In the National Assembly, recently elected Democratic Party lawmakers are openly calling for Prosecutor General Yoon’s resignation, 
and have even threatened to make him the first case on the docket of 
the newly established Corruption Investigation Office for High-ranking 
Officials that began work on 1 July 2020.13 Once considered an administration ally, he is now feared and reviled as someone whose office 
may follow the Ulsan investigation wherever it leads, including to the 
president himself. If Yoon seems to Democrats to be out of control, is 
this causing them to reflect on the freewheeling attitudes toward prosecutorial power that they showed when it was aimed at their enemies 
and not them? The Moon administration refused to show forbearance in 
its exercise of power, and now is complaining because not all the results 
are to its liking