Politicizing Civil Society, Infringing on Free Speech
Civil society was an active and important player in Korea’s journey 
toward democracy. In 1960, student-led protests forced the Republic of 
Korea’s authoritarian first president, Syngman Rhee, out of the office. In 
1987, street demonstrations pressured the Chun Doo Hwan dictatorship 
to accept the reforms that marked Korea’s transition to democracy. The 
2016–17 candlelight protests likewise used broad civic participation to 
galvanize Korean politics. Civil society has also provided manpower 
to political society. The so-called 386 generation (a term, coined in the 
1990s, for activists then in their thirties who were in college in the 1980s 
and were born in the 1960s) hold key posts in the Moon administration. 
As young people, they had spearheaded the democracy movement. Several (Cho Kuk among them) were also key members of a leading civic 
organization called the People’s Solidarity for Participatory Democracy. 
Many other ministers, senior presidential secretaries, and National Assembly members were also leading student or civic activists. Yesterday’s protesters have become today’s props of the power structure.
The political prominence of Korean civil society is not altogether a 
heartening sign for democracy. Civil society looms as large as it does 
because Korea has an unsteady party system that struggles to produce 
policies responsive to social demands. Active civic participation in politics is encouraging, but when institutions such as parties are immature and 
dysfunctional, the effect may be to leave society politicized and polarized 
108 Journal of Democracy
to an unhealthy degree. If the vagaries of a mercurial “street democracy” 
come to outweigh representative, constitutional institutions, the omen for 
democratic stability is not a good one.
Adding to the foreboding has been the spectacle offered by the many 
former democratic activists, now ensconced in office, who are leading 
the charge against important democratic rules and norms.14 As the noted 
political scientist Jang-Jip Choi has pointed out, these new elites are running the government as if they were still battling authoritarianism. Instead 
of appreciating democratic standards that promote tolerance and compromise, they seem intent on living in the past and reprising their glory days 
as bold young activists.15 In short, they still seem to think they are “fighting the power” when, in fact, they are the power. Korea’s politicized civil 
society, moreover, is not moderating them. Rather, it lacks moderation 
itself, and this lack of forbearance is stunting democracy.
A sign that the situation is growing serious is the rising trend of infringing the freedom of speech. In late 2018, the Moon government declared “war on fake news,” encouraging state agencies to report false or 
misleading news accounts, especially videos on conservative YouTube 
channels, to law enforcement. There was pushback as opposition lawmakers and conservative intellectuals denounced the “war” as an attempt to silence critical voices.16 Yet the problem has not gone away. In 
February 2020, the Democratic Party went so far as to sue a professor for 
a newspaper column she wrote asking readers to vote for “any party but 
the Democratic Party” in the April election. The lawsuit was too much 
for some Moon supporters, who broke with the administration over this 
blow against free speech. Staffers at think tanks dependent on government funding are also under pressure not to write or say anything that 
will upset the administration. The only Washington, D.C., think tank to 
focus on the Korean Peninsula, the Johns Hopkins–affiliated U.S.-Korea 
Institute, lost its funding from Seoul and had to close in 2018 when it 
rejected a Blue House demand to fire its director and assistant director. The Moon administration objected to them on the grounds that they 
were too conservative.17
In this context, it is important to note the aggressive behavior and 
even fanaticism of the Moon-ppa. In addition to holding street demonstrations, they are not above harassing individuals and groups whose 
views they dislike, barraging targets with text messages and malicious online comments. When a judge issued a ruling they opposed, 
they doxxed him, posting his personal information on the internet. A 
merchant who voiced concern about the “godawful” economy when the 
president visited his store was targeted by verbal abuse and threats of violence. National Assembly members, intellectuals, and journalists with 
“unacceptable” views find themselves inundated by tsunamis of angry, 
threatening texts and other forms of cyberbullying. 
The Moon-ppa behaved with an especially feverish ferocity during 
Gi-Wook Shin 109
the Cho Kuk controversy. No facts regarding his legally dubious activities could sway them; they saw only allies and enemies. As polarization worsens and extreme supporters grow increasingly strident, Korean 
intellectuals are choosing to remain silent or engage in self-censorship. 
Voices of reason and conscience—which every free and democratic society must have—are being muffled if not stilled altogether.