Chauvinistic Populism
The fusion of political polarization and populism, which is drawing 
explosive popular support, is an important feature of the global democratic depression. From Donald Trump and “America First” to Boris 
Johnson and Brexit, not to mention Duterte and Erdo¢gan plus Brazil’s 
Jair Bolsonaro and India’s Narendra Modi, leaders are winning through 
populist appeals that hold the danger of promoting chauvinism and jeopardizing minorities and immigrants. 
The chauvinistic populism that has emerged in Korea is akin to what 
we are witnessing elsewhere. Whereas populism in the United States 
and Europe comes mainly from the right, Korean populism appears 
similar to Latin American left-wing populism. Moon’s is a government 
of the left, but its leftism has not barred it from trafficking in nationalist appeals. Moon himself has praised Admiral Yi Sun Shin, a national 
hero known for fighting the Japanese more than four centuries ago, in 
at least one speech. In 2017, the Blue House took a petty swipe at Japan 
by serving prawns caught near the islet group known as Dokdo (and 
long disputed between Seoul and Tokyo) at a state banquet for President 
Trump.18 Calls to boycott Japanese goods are a recurring story in Korea 
(there was a boycott campaign in mid-2019). 
It is an old story: Politicians are wrapping themselves in the flag to 
distract the public from something else. Behind references to Admiral 
Yi and other such patriotic mainstays as the Tonghak Peasant Rebellion 
of 1894 and the National Debt Repayment Movement of 1907 is the 
Moon administration’s eagerness to pump up the president’s approval 
rating while avoiding responsibility for ongoing economic difficulties 
and the neglect of bilateral relations with Japan. In 2019, the Democratic 
Party’s think tank even put out a report on how Seoul-Tokyo frictions 
could help the party’s candidates at the polls in 2020. 
It should hardly need explaining, one may hope, that inflaming diplomatic tensions by deploying small seafood in even smaller stunts—
to say nothing of trying to split Koreans into hostile factions complete 
with charges of “traitor” being hurled—is no way for the high officials 
of a democratic republic to live up to their duties and responsibilities. 
Cheap chauvinistic gambits are unbecoming of those tasked with leading a country that belongs to the G20, wields serious military power 
in one of the world’s most strategically important regions, boasts the 
110 Journal of Democracy
globe’s twelfth-largest economy, and has been a competitive democracy 
for decades. 
When populism is on the rise, political logic and emotional appeals 
take center stage, professionalism and expert opinions are dismissed, 
and it becomes hard to have rational debates. For example, when the 
administration said that it would act on a campaign pledge by raising the 
minimum wage (a not untypical populist policy), many economists advised that increases be done incrementally since a big chunk of Korean 
employment comes from self-employed individuals who hire temporary 
workers.19 Moon dismissed the economists as mouthpieces for a “privileged few” and raised the minimum wage 16.4 percent in 2018 plus 
another 10.9 percent in 2019. These steep hikes have caused small employers vast difficulty and cost many temporary workers their jobs. The 
tragic irony of workers losing their jobs due to moves that were billed as 
helping them is not one that the administration wishes to acknowledge, 
much less fix. There has been no course correction.
Soon after the covid-19 crisis began, the Moon administration initially portrayed the virus as an insignificant danger and said that things 
had stabilized. It ignored health experts’ call for a temporary ban on 
travel from China, bizarrely claiming that “China’s difficulties are our 
own difficulties” and “banning travelers would not have a practical benefit.”20 Political considerations may have been at work: China’s President Xi Jinping was scheduled to arrive in early April, not long before 
the election, and the Democrats did not want to cancel a visit that they 
expected to reflect well on them. That visit is now on hold, of course, as 
Korea like so many other countries pays a high price for the pandemic. 
To sidestep public criticism over the administration’s unwillingness 
and inability to block the inflow of the virus from overseas, Moon’s 
government sought to redirect blame onto the Shincheonji Church of 
Jesus, a mysterious religious group that was associated with two February “superspreader events” in which a single congregant unknowingly 
infected dozens of others. Another blame target has been Japan. On 
March 30, the government in Tokyo announced that it would ban entries 
from China, most of Europe, the United States, and also South Korea. 
The Moon administration immediately reciprocated with its own travel 
ban—a step that it had not taken against a number of other countries that 
had also banned Korean visitors. 
Nonetheless, the Moon government was able to contain the virus effectively, thanks to a robust national healthcare system and dedicated 
healthcare professionals. And despite the pandemic, Korea was also able 
to go forward via the usual method of mostly in-person voting on election day (there were two days of early voting and some mail-in voting 
as well) subject to such precautions as masks, gloves, required personal 
spacing, and the use of thermometers and hand sanitizer at polling stations. Turnout was high at 66 percent (legislative elections have aver-
Gi-Wook Shin 111
aged 55 percent turnout since 2000). The success against covid-19 no 
doubt had something to do with the Democratic Party’s strong showing 
in the April election. 
Much of the success, however, came at great social and individual 
expense. The unprecedented surveillance of those infected (and those 
potentially exposed) included cellphone-location data, credit-card records, security-camera imagery, and personal interviews. It was all done 
without court orders, and it imposed severe restrictions on freedom, privacy, and the rights of individuals. The authorities have also made every 
effort to share the personal details of infected patients with the public: Government websites and regional health-advisory text messages 
include patients’ ages, genders, and places of work and residency along 
with accounts of their movements and of how and where they came into 
contact with the virus. In the name of public health and safety, such intimate details of people’s lives as their sexual orientation and religious 
beliefs have been laid bare for public consumption, judgment, ridicule, 
and social stigma.