Arresting the Slide
While various trends betokening democratic backsliding in Korea 
date back before the Moon administration, it is fair to say that they have 
gained force since President Moon took office. Because the trends have 
manifested themselves gradually, and typically within the ambit of existing laws and procedures, it has taken some time to see their overall 
pattern and recognize where they are driving Korea. No longer can they 
be written off as mere growing pains of democratization. Together, they 
add up to a disease whose emerging symptoms one may be tempted to 
shrug off, but which will take a staggering toll if not understood and 
checked. Or to shift the metaphor, we may say that democratic erosion 
is something that happens gradually, then all at once. As in the Korean 
expression about the light drizzle that soaks you before you even notice 
it, the subtle subversion of democratic norms across multiple spheres 
could one day hit Korea’s young democracy with unbearable costs. 
Can Korea withstand the democratic recession? Can Koreans protect 
their democracy, forged in bloody struggle and popular sacrifice in the 
cause of stopping authoritarian repression? They must begin, first and 
foremost, by reflecting deeply on what democracy means, and grasp 
that it depends on norms which go beyond the bare letter of the law. 
As Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt argue in their 2018 book How 
Democracies Die, the procedural rule of law itself is insufficient to defend democracy if the core democratic norms of mutual tolerance and 
forbearance are not respected as well. A country whose people think of 
each other primarily as “allies” or “enemies” cannot remain a democracy. If ordinary Koreans must be aware of this, all the more so must 
112 Journal of Democracy
the political leaders currently in power. They should be alarmed that 
the current administration could go down in history as the main culprit 
in the erosion of Korean democracy. The members of the current ruling 
elite were once fierce opponents of authoritarian rule. What a tragedy it would 
be if they of all people were to stand in 
the way of Korea’s democratic development.
In April 2020, the Democratic Party 
won the most decisive electoral victory 
Korea has seen since the democratic era 
began in 1987. During a national crisis 
caused by a novel disease, the voters 
chose to end the near-even split in the 
legislature between the Democrats and 
their major rival on the right, handing 
the center-left its first outright majority since 2004. President Moon’s party and its now-absorbed satellite 
currently control 180 seats—exactly the three-fifths majority needed to 
fast-track bills. The president is free to press his agenda, foreign and 
domestic, with more confidence and authority, and will likely avoid the 
early lame-duck status that often burdens Korean presidents during their 
single five-year terms. 
At the same time, Korean democracy is facing higher risks. The new 
National Assembly will likely see heightened polarization between progressives and conservatives, as there is little in the way of a “third option.” The covid-19 crisis was such a dominant matter that it crowded 
out important debates over how the administration had discharged other 
issues. With the ruling bloc riding so high, the temptation to push ideologically driven, populist policies will be strong, and effective checks 
and balances likely lacking. 
As has so often been the case in the history of democracy, much 
hinges on the leadership of a single person. President Moon holds in his 
hands a chance to upgrade Korean democracy to the next level, but if he 
chooses poorly he could tip it into a slide toward democratic dictatorship instead. To maximize the prospects of the former rather than the 
latter scenario, he should embrace the virtue of restraint. By no means 
should he repeat the practices of the first three years of his tenure that 
have undermined democracy. With so much power at his beck, he has 
rare, potent leverage that he can use to promote tolerance rather than 
confrontation, and forbearance rather than the abuse of power. He needs 
to respect and practice such democratic norms beyond the procedural 
rule of law. 
For Korea to have a chance to overcome the polarizing forces that 
are pulling it apart along ideological, class, generational, and regional 
For Korea to have a 
chance to overcome the 
polarizing forces that 
are pulling it apart, the 
president must begin 
holding himself to a 
higher standard in light 
of liberal democracy’s 
greatest ideals. 
Gi-Wook Shin 113
lines, the president must begin holding himself to a higher standard in 
light of liberal democracy’s greatest ideals. Without a higher regard for 
these ideals the politics of anger and revenge will not end, and nothing 
but these ideals holds the power to revive a politics of concord big and 
strong enough to contain the disagreements that democracies must always learn to handle without destroying themselves. The pandemic has 
bred many uncertainties, but even in their midst we can sense what must 
happen over the next two years if the future of Korean democracy is to 
be made more secure.
